Chase Wright: Hey, everyone. I'm gonna ping Boma, see if they're joining or not. They usually host, so…
Chase Wright: I guess we can just get started, the harder, let me see here…
Chase Wright: Let's see…
Chase Wright: So, I guess before we get started, does anyone have anything they want to bring up in addition to the agenda that…
Chase Wright: Bomer wrote down.
Chase Wright: I'll take that as a no. The first one is about versioning information. I know that there's…
Chase Wright: some asks for us to, start doing version releases.
Chase Wright: I think we can probably start doing that relatively soon. There's a lot of…
Chase Wright: outdated and open PRs, though, that it would be really nice to get cleaned up and figure out what the
Chase Wright: first version release should look like.
Chase Wright: Does anyone have any thoughts on that?
Chase Wright: Okay, I guess not.
Chase Wright: I went through some of these. I think most of these PRs Either… Need to get, closed?
Chase Wright: Or… The maintain… like, the person who submitted them need to come in and resolve some of their conflicts?
Chase Wright: I don't… All the stale ones from, like, 23?
Chase Wright: They seem to just… not be… no one seems to care anymore.
Chase Wright: I don't really have any insight into any of these.
Chase Wright: Like, this one is still interesting, I think.
Chase Wright: Yeah, I don't know, this one might cause… some issues.
Chase Wright: Does anyone have any opinions at all?
Tullio | Erigon: Oh, yeah.
Tullio | Erigon: Good afternoon, I'm Tulio, and yeah, I think, It depends on what… We want to do… towards…
Tullio | Erigon: The… the client of this… API. I mean, strictly speaking, we should still support such kind of…
Tullio | Erigon: methods, at least for… pre-marriage blocks.
Tullio | Erigon: But then, yeah, it's… probably no one cares, really cares.
Tullio | Erigon: So yeah, it's a bit,
Tullio | Erigon: I have an… have an issue between being, strict in terms of
Tullio | Erigon: At the interface level, or being… Let's see… Practical, yeah?
Chase Wright: Yeah, actually, and you know, that's a good point, because you know.
Chase Wright: the RETH team brought up this PR.
Chase Wright: And, I think the ETHREX guys have the same problem, and…
Chase Wright: Correct me if I'm wrong, I think you guys on the Aragon side, you… you… you fixed this just recently.
Tullio | Erigon: Yes, yes, we did, we did recently.
Chase Wright: Yeah. So, yeah, it's kind of a double-edged sword, because, like.
Chase Wright: As you said, those methods are valid for, like, pre-merge
Chase Wright: Data, but, like…
Chase Wright: Does anyone actually care? I think that is… that is one of the main questions, because I know that… I think it's… in protocol, like, the nodes don't even need to save the uncle blocks, so, like, having the methods…
Chase Wright: That are non-deterministic.
Chase Wright: Anyway, seems counterproductive.
Chase Wright: Because, like, we can't really write tests for them.
Chase Wright: And the nodes aren't required to keep the uncles anyway.
Chase Wright: So…
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah.
Chase Wright: Fair enough.
Chase Wright: I don't know, it might make sense…
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, it's probably just a technical debit, and that's it.
Chase Wright: Yeah, yeah, I agree with that. I don't really…
Chase Wright: I don't really have a strong opinion on it.
Chase Wright: This… this PR seems good. I don't know, it's just a wrapper to the main… so it's async.
Chase Wright: I don't have any problems with this particular PR.
Chase Wright: It seems fine, it doesn't really do anything.
Chase Wright: Unfortunately, I'm not… I'm not an approver, though, so I can't do anything about it.
Chase Wright: The other ones are all, like I said, these are all incredibly old. They need… fixes…
Chase Wright: I don't think we're gonna make a decision on any of these…
Chase Wright: anytime soon. Standardization of the TX pool is… is a good one. This probably needs…
Chase Wright: Need some eyes, you probably need to…
Chase Wright: work on this at some point. I think adding tests… to this… Fo…
Chase Wright: Fixing the standard and putting tests, probably a good…
Chase Wright: next step for this PR, but it has conflicts,
Chase Wright: And I think we need to… finalize…
Chase Wright: what version 1's gonna look like, which I know Bowman was working on, but I… she's… she's not here, so… maybe we'll have to push that conversation out till the next meeting.
Chase Wright: Yeah, and that's pretty much all I got. I know that, I do have…
Chase Wright: I have this PR, which is in draft. This is an ask from the Pandas. They want a, testing
Chase Wright: Build BlockV1 RPC method. Marius did a bunch of work on Geth to support this method. The…
Chase Wright: The standard is defined in this PR, and there's lots of conversation here. I'll post this in the,
Chase Wright: In the chat, if I can find it. Okay, here's the chat, so I'm gonna post this. So, if anyone has any input on this particular…
Chase Wright: RPC method, please… Please provide some feedback.
Chase Wright: I've started putting the spec into YAML format in this PR, which I can paste here.
Chase Wright: And… Everything is working, in the Go Ethereum fork, that this…
Chase Wright: PR is referencing. Unfortunately, I still need to get Marius to review the PR, and we can get this merged into Geth, and then once that's there, then,
Chase Wright: Geth will have support for this particular method. I don't know… Aragon…
Chase Wright: can support something similar, that would be great.
Tullio | Erigon: I need to take a look, but…
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, I think… I think so, but I will take a closer look.
Chase Wright: Yeah, apparently this is supposed to make it much easier for the pandas to… to test,
Chase Wright: Different, like, forks and building special blocks and stuff.
Chase Wright: So, yeah, if you could take a look, that'd be great.
Chase Wright: Yeah, that's pretty much it, unless anyone has anything else they want to talk about.
Chase Wright: Oh, there's also the,
Chase Wright: What was it? The,
Chase Wright: Whenever… this… I think this is fine, but we need a maintainer to rerun it, so…
Chase Wright: Yep. Alright, that's it. I don't have anything more, and it doesn't sound like you guys have much else either.
Chase Wright: Cool. Tulio, I know you sent me a message in Discord, so, we can chat,
Chase Wright: Thank you.
Chanderprakash: Oh, hi.
Chase Wright: Yeah, bye.
Chanderprakash: Now, historic…
Chase Wright: Sorry, you're muted again.
Chanderprakash: Hi, sorry, sorry for interrupting you.
Chase Wright: No, it's okay, what's up?
Chanderprakash: Yeah, so yeah, you guys are discussing about RPC endpoints, PRs, so I'm, like, not new to the Ethereum, I am working in Ethereum research on Layer 2 stack.
Chanderprakash: But, right now, I want to participate, too, in, co-development. So, could you, please guide, like, how I can help you guys to further push the Ethereum forward?
Chanderprakash: Where I can contribute meaningfully.
Chase Wright: Yeah, I mean… I think… I think…
Chase Wright: So, some of the… some of the struggle right now we're having is… is… the…
Chase Wright: Maintainers, are very, very busy.
Chase Wright: if we could get more… more eyes on some of these PRs for comments, either… Closing, or…
Chase Wright: Reviews, comments, feedbacks, anything we could get.
Chase Wright: on these, there are… Some,
Chase Wright: there are some, like, wish lists. I know one of the things that we want to do is we want to start writing tests for the debug namespace.
Chase Wright: Because there's only a handful of them for, like, debug, get, raw, whatever. We want to try to start standardizing on, like, tracing and things like that. So if you have any insight into,
Chase Wright: like the opcode tracer, or call tracer, things like that. We really want to get some of that standardized.
Chase Wright: Another thing that was recently brought up is the, The debug set head.
Chase Wright: method. It's not currently standardized across the clients. So, like, Netherland has a different name for it. I don't think Aragon supports it.
Chase Wright: And then, like, you know, GETH requires the block number in hex, ref requires it in decimal,
Chase Wright: That's something that has been brought up, that we'd like to standardize the debug set head, so we can unwind the execution clients, via the API. If that's something you could look into, that would… that would be helpful.
Chase Wright: And other than that, I guess you could come into the ETH R&D Discord in the JSON RPC channel and
Chase Wright: and help… Help organize there as well.
Chanderprakash: Yeah, sure. Thank you, thank you for this. I would like,
Chanderprakash: Prioritize these things that you mentioned, and, try to contribute meaningfully.
Chase Wright: Cool, thanks.
Chase Wright: Alright guys, I guess that's it. I don't have anything else, so… Let's chat offline.
Chase Wright: Have a good day.
Tullio | Erigon: Okay. Have a nice day. Bye.